Master and slave interrupt generation
– Master generates interrupts when a transmit or receive operation completes (or aborts due to an error)
– Slave generates interrupts when data has been transferred or requested by a master or when a START or STOP condition is detected

The I2C interface signals are alternate functions for some GPIO signals and default to be GPIO signals at reset, 
with the exception of the I2C0SCL and I2CSDA pins which default to the I2C function. 
The column in the table below titled "Pin Mux/Pin Assignment" lists the possible GPIO pin placements for the I2C signals. 
The AFSEL bit in the GPIO Alternate Function Select (GPIOAFSEL) register (page 671) should be set to choose the I2C function. 
The number in parentheses is the encoding that must be programmed into the PMCn field in the GPIO Port Control (GPIOPCTL) 
register (page 688) to assign the I2C signal to the specified GPIO port pin. Note that the I2CSDA pin should be set to 
open drain using the GPIO Open Drain Select (GPIOODR) register. 


Each I2C module is comprised of both master and slave functions and is identified by a unique address. 
A master-initiated communication generates the clock signal, SCL. For proper operation, 
the SDA pin must be configured as an open-drain signal. Due to the internal circuitry that supports high-speed operation, 
the SCL pin must not be configured as an open-drain signal, although the internal circuitry causes 
it to act as if it were an open drain signal. 
Both SDA and SCL signals must be connected to a positive supply voltage using a pull-up resistor.

A High-to-Low transition on the SDA line while the SCL is High is defined as a START condition, 
and a Low-to-High transition on the SDA line while SCL is High is defined as a STOP condition.

The I2C master module generates an interrupt when a transaction completes (either transmit or receive), 
when arbitration is lost, or when an error occurs during a transaction. 

The slave module can generate an interrupt when data has been received or requested.

In addition, the slave module can generate an interrupt when a start and stop condition is detected.

The I2C modules can be placed into an internal loopback mode for diagnostic or debug work by setting the LPBK bit in the I2C Master Configuration (I2CMCR) register. 
